---
layout:     post
title:      Building a Space Station
subtitle:   POJ2031
date:       2018-11-05
author:     roffett
header-img: img/landscape09.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - ACM
    - 最小生成树
    - POJ
---

<hr style="height:10px;border:none;border-top:10px groove skyblue;" />>
[poj2031](http://poj.org/problem?id=2031)

<div style="font-weight:bold;">
<h3 align="center">Building a Space Station</h3><br />
Time Limit: 1000MS<br />
Memory Limit: 30000K<br />
Total Submissions: 12999<br />Accepted: 5884<br />
<br />
Description:<br />
<br />
You are a member of the space station engineering team, and are assigned<br />
a task in the construction process of the station. You are expected  to <br />
write a computer program to complete the task. The space station is made<br />
up with a number of units, called cells. All cells are sphere-shaped, <br />
but their sizes are not necessarily uniform. Each cell is fixed at its <br />
predetermined position shortly after the station is successfully put into<br />
its orbit. It is quite strange that two cells may be touching each other,<br />
or even may be overlapping. In an extreme case, a cell may be totally <br />
enclosing another one. I do not know how such arrangements are possible. <br />
<br />
All the cells must be connected, since crew members should be able to <br />
walk from any cell to any other cell. They can walk from a cell A to <br />
another cell B, if, (1) A and B are touching each other or overlapping,<br />
(2) A and B are connected by a `corridor', or (3) there is a cell C such <br />
that walking from A to C, and also from B to C are both possible. Note that <br />
the condition (3) should be interpreted transitively. <br />
<br />
You are expected to design a configuration, namely, which pairs of cells are <br />
to be connected with corridors. There is some freedom in the corridor configuration. <br />
For example, if there are three cells A, B and C, not touching nor overlapping<br />
each other, at least three plans are possible in order to connect all three cells.<br />
The first is to build corridors A-B and A-C, the second B-C and B-A, the third <br />
C-A and C-B. The cost of building a corridor is proportional to its length.<br />
Therefore, you should choose a plan with the shortest total length of the corridors. <br />
<br />
You can ignore the width of a corridor. A corridor is built between points <br />
on two cells' surfaces. It can be made arbitrarily long, but of course the <br />
shortest one is chosen. Even if two corridors A-B and C-D intersect in space,<br />
they are not considered to form a connection path between (for example) A and <br />
C. In other words, you may consider that two corridors never intersect. <br />
<br />
Input:<br />
The input consists of multiple data sets. Each data set is given in the following format. <br />
<br />
n <br />
x1 y1 z1 r1 <br />
x2 y2 z2 r2 <br />
... <br />
xn yn zn rn <br />
<br />
The first line of a data set contains an integer n, which is the number of <br />
cells. n is positive, and does not exceed 100. <br />
<br />
The following n lines are descriptions of cells. Four values in a line are <br />
x-, y- and z-coordinates of the center, and radius (called r in the rest of <br />
the problem) of the sphere, in this order. Each value is given by a decimal<br />
fraction, with 3 digits after the decimal point. Values are separated by <br />
a space character. <br />
<br />
Each of x, y, z and r is positive and is less than 100.0. <br />
<br />
The end of the input is indicated by a line containing a zero. <br />
Output<br />
<br />
For each data set, the shortest total length of the corridors should be printed, <br />
each in a separate line. The printed values should have 3 digits after the decimal <br />
point. They may not have an error greater than 0.001. <br />
<br />
Note that if no corridors are necessary, that is, if all the cells are connected<br />
without corridors, the shortest total length of the corridors is 0.000. <br />
<br />
Sample Input:<br />
3<br />
10.000 10.000 50.000 10.000<br />
40.000 10.000 50.000 10.000<br />
40.000 40.000 50.000 10.000<br />
2<br />
30.000 30.000 30.000 20.000<br />
40.000 40.000 40.000 20.000<br />
5<br />
5.729 15.143 3.996 25.837<br />
6.013 14.372 4.818 10.671<br />
80.115 63.292 84.477 15.120<br />
64.095 80.924 70.029 14.881<br />
39.472 85.116 71.369 5.553<br />
0<br />
<br />
Sample Output:<br />
20.000<br />
0.000<br />
73.834<br />
<br />
<br /></div>

<hr style="height:10px;border:none;border-top:10px groove skyblue;" />>

#### 解题思路：  

<div style = "font-size:20px;font-weight:bold;color:black;">
 除去题意本质是水题，!!G++里面双精度要%f输出不然会WA<br />
</div>

<hr style="height:10px;border:none;border-top:10px groove skyblue;" />

### AC代码：

    #include<cstdio>
    #include<cstring>
    #include<cmath>
    #include<algorithm>
    using namespace std;

    int n,num;
    struct node{
        double x,y,z;
        double r;
    }no[105];

    struct edge {
        int from,to;
        double val;
    }e[50005];

    double path(node a,node b){
        return sqrt((a.x-b.x)*(a.x-b.x)+(a.y-b.y)*(a.y-b.y)+(a.z-b.z)*(a.z-b.z))-a.r-b.r;
    }

    int pre[105];

    void init(){
        for(int i = 0;i<=n;i++){
            pre[i] = i;
        }
    }

    int find(int x){
        int p = x;
        while(x!=pre[x]){
            x = pre[x];
        }
        while(p!=x){
            int tmp = pre[p];
            pre[p] = x;
            p = tmp;
        }
        return x;
    }

    void join(int a,int b){
        int roota = find(a);
        int rootb = find(b);
        if(roota != rootb){
            pre[roota] = rootb;
        }
        return ;
    }

    bool cmp(edge a,edge b){
        return a.val<b.val;
    }
    double kruskal(){
        double res = 0;
        sort(e,e+num+1,cmp);
        for(int i = 0;i<=num;i++){
            if(find(e[i].from)!=find(e[i].to)){
                join(e[i].from,e[i].to);
                res += e[i].val;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
    int main(){
        while(scanf("%d",&n)){
        if(n==0) break;
        num = -1;
        for(int i = 0;i<n;i++){
            scanf("%lf%lf%lf%lf",&no[i].x,&no[i].y,&no[i].z,&no[i].r);
        }
        init();
        for(int i=1;i<=n;i++){
            for(int j = i+1;j<=n;j++){
                if(path(no[i-1],no[j-1])<=0){
                    join(i,j);
                    continue;
                }
                num++;
                e[num].from = i;
                e[num].to = j;
                e[num].val = path(no[i-1],no[j-1]);
            }
        }
        if(num == -1) printf("0.000\n");
        else printf("%.3f\n",kruskal());
        memset(e,0,sizeof(e));
        memset(no,0,sizeof(no));

    }
        return 0;
    }